We need to role-play a scrum for SWE, ML, Dev, AI development using multiple agents. So we need to actually role-play an end-to-end scrum framework. So there would be a user, us, who will be business SME, who is also an agent. So when we want to take over, we are business SME. Else it can go to autopilot using business SME agent. We will have a meet. That meet would be done in .txt file with developer agents. So we will have multiple developer agents, one scrum master agent that also does orchestration, and let's say six, eight developer agents, the user, that is the business SME, starts a meet. All developer agents join, and user gives the problem statement. It could be a folder, file, paragraph, docs, PPTs, everything together for reference. Then they will have a conversation in the .txt file where the developer agents and the scrum master agent would have a brainstorming session once they get the reference material, and during that conversation, SME user or SME agent can intervene and clarify. And if agents have questions, either SME agent or user can answer it. So there is this human in the loop or sort of thing in it. Once all the agents know about what needs to be done end-to-end, we conclude with meet one. They will have one .txt file with all the conversation, and the scrum master agent would then create a .md file called PRD.md. That once written, all the agents will proofread it and edit it in a way where everyone accepts what needs to be done. And once all the agents are on the same page that, okay, this is the final PRD, it would be then sent to the SME agent or the user to do a final round of proofreading that other agents understood. We need to make sure there is debate, all have different ideas, they contradict, they debate, they brainstorm independently, and they are not just yes men. They can also ideate and present new ideas. Once we have this, what needs to be done is that this will conclude with meeting one, where meet one has all the agents and the scrum master agent and the business SME or business SME agent are all on the same page, where it should be like in a conversational manner where during the meet in the .txt file all the agents will say what they are thinking, they'll brainstorm there, and that meet would also be joined using either the scrum master agent or either the business SME agent or the business SME user, and if they feel that, okay, this conversation is going somewhere off track, or this is not how I wanted it to be, they can manually intervene it and keep the alignment straight. So once the PRD is done, we are done with the phase one, that is the meet one, which will at the end have one .txt file with that first meet, all the context, references, debates, questions, everything. Once the PRD is done, if the agents have any questions, or during the meeting as well, if agents ask any questions, clarification, then the user or the business SME agent answer that, that all those questions would also be included in the PRD.md. So if in future reference, if they lose the context, they'll have that for reference material as well.
So now that we have the PRD.md, there would be, like, as I said, six agents, and all the agents would have the same template. So all are developer agents. No one is specifically a front-end agent or a back-end agent. All the agents are the same agents, as there is in Scrum, all the engineers at the same level. Then all the six, let's say there are six agents. So it is a very extensible approach. If we ever want to add another agent, we will have a reusable template for that agent. So we can add, like, in just a single config file or increasing just a number count, like making it seven from six will add another agent. It would be a reusable template agent. So a standard reusable template agent, developer agent. So likewise, let's say we have six for now. So they all would be generic developer agents. And then we'll have a skill layer. So what the skill layer will do is that that layer will have different skills. Let's say front-end skill, back-end skill, database skill, this skill, that skill. And those developer agents can pick and choose different skills as they want. So instead of an entire agent just doing back-end or just doing front-end, let's say a task has more front-end and less back-end. So only if we only take front-end agent, back-end agent, only one agent can perform the task. Now that we have all the developer agents, the one agent can use the front-end skill and start working on front-end, and the second agent can also use the same front-end skill to start working on front-end. Right? So let's say if there is a task which needs two front-end engineers and three back-end engineers and no DevOps engineer and no database engineer. Three developer agents can use the same back-end skill, and two developer agents can use the same front-end skill. So let's say the back-end work is done. So one of the developer agents, instead of sitting idle, it will then go and take the front-end skill and start again working on front-end skill. Either we can do this, or to simplify the approach, we can also have where these agents are adversarial. So only front-end agent would work, but the second agent will also take the front-end skill, but then go in an adversarial manner with the front-end, the first agent that took the front-end skill. So in this case, the first agent that took the front-end skill would be doing the most of the front-end work. The second agent would also take the front-end skill, but then go in an adversarial way with the first agent that is doing front-end, and it would ask questions. It would reiterate, like keeping it in an adversarial way so the output is better, as there would be multiple inputs, multiple design choices. Get the point? So likewise for back-end as well. So we can have one back-end agent, and then if let's say another agent is free, that back-end agent can either help that agent to develop stuff ahead, or it can go in an adversarial way where it can question the choices of the first agent, so the output is much better. So it would, the second adversarial agent would help the first agent to be in alignment with the second agent. Now what we are thinking is each agent would be able to spin up multiple sub-agents in itself. So that agent then becomes the orchestrator. So let's say developer agent took the front-end skill. Now it can also spin up multiple sub-agents. So let's say the front-end, so the agent with front-end skill wants to spin up three sub-agents. So to spin up three sub-agents, all these three sub-agents would have that skill of front-end, and then that agent with the front-end skill, the main agent, becomes the orchestrator instead of the scrum master agent for these three sub-agents. So these three sub-agents have the agent to see that, okay, if let's say the agent with the front-end skill spun up three sub-agents, it will then orchestrate all these three sub-agents. It would see that, okay, what agent is doing what. It will verify their work. So likewise. And even in those sub-agents, if we don't want to— if we want to complicate it, we can allow those sub-agents to also spin up more sub-agents, but we'll look into it later. So this is the approach that we are thinking, is that so that agent, let's say the one agent is doing front-end and second agent is doing back-end, right? So front-end can spin up multiple sub-agents for front-end, back-end can spin up multiple agents for back-end, and let's say the third agent is sitting idle. So it can either go in an adversarial way with the back-end agent, or it can go in a complementary way with the back-end agent, and it can spin up more sub-agents and coordinate everything. So each agent is an orchestrator in himself, and it would be a top-to-bottom approach. So the sub-agents would then report or be orchestrated by the agent, and all the agents would be orchestrated by the scrum master agent, and then the scrum master agent would then report to business associate agent for the final verification. So yeah.
So this way we will also have that skill layer to be very extensible. Because that layer would be just like a pick and plug and play kind of a thing. That it would be like a layer where each agent can just pick up one of the skills and start working upon it. So let's say if ever want to add a new MLOps agent, right? MLOps skill. So we just need to add another .md file, and let's say another agent if we want, or even if we don't want agent, we'll just add another .md file for that MLOps agent, and one of the agents can then pick and choose the MLOps .md for that skill. So even the skill layer would be very extensible and easy to extend, and the agents layer would be easy to extend and extensible because everything is very modular and just plug and play. Right. So, yeah, and during the meeting, like let's say when the first meeting starts, the agents, like we don't want each agent to have a defined role, right? So if there is a scrum meet, each agent would pick a skill, and each agent would only pick one skill and then join the scrum meet. So they can think from their perspective. So if during the scrum meet, if there is a new project that is being discussed or a new feature being discussed, if all are just developer agents, no one thinks from a specific specialization perspective. But let's say during that scrum meet, one developer agent has front-end skill, one has backend skill, one has database skill, one has deployment skills, DevOps skills. So then they can think from that perspective that, okay, if this is the feature, this is how the front end should look like, this is how the backend should look like. So when they are in the meet as well, when they are discussing, they will have the option to pick and choose one skill, and then only they can enter the meet. So this happens after the first meet. In the first meet, when the project is being discussed, when the problem statement is being given, in that everyone is a developer agent. But from the second meet onwards, once the implementation has begun, we'll have specialized agents, like joining the meet, like not specialized agents, but all the agents has to pick a skill, and then only they can join the meet. Same way they can choose, like two agents can choose the front-end skill, three agents can choose the backend skill, so they can debate in the meeting, like as we discussed earlier, there would be a .txt file for each and every scrum meet, which will log what each agent is saying and stuff like that. And so if there are two agents with front-end skill, they might debate on design choices, and if there are database agents, then they might debate and, you know, work together on schemas and stuff. So this is the idea.
Then, so let's, so like once we have all these agents brainstorming and stuff, they'll have, like before the implementation starts, they'll all do brainstorming from different perspectives. One would have perspective from front-end side, one would have perspective from back-end side. And then they'll create an implementation plan.md, and the front-end engineers would create a design.md file. So now we have PRD.md, technical approach or technical architecture.md, and design.md for everything. If the thing doesn't have front-end, we'll then have only architecture.md and stuff. So this is how the thing should be used. Now for each and every meet, we'll have a scrum meet with a 15-minute cutoff. So as soon as the... We will have a manual run for the meet, where once we click the button or whatever we use, they'll start a meet. They'll have a logging file where the log would start with R minute and second. They'll have a time. So let's say if in real life I start the meet at 2 p.m., each and every text that they send would be captured with the time limit, what is the time at that particular point, and within the 15-minute gap they have to discuss everything and get to the conclusion. And the scrum master agent would update that in... will update that in the scrum file, like whatever daily updates file that it uses, so that it updates. It says that, okay, what was completed yesterday, what is done today, what will we be doing tomorrow, the way scrum works. It would have a proper scrum file to manage and stuff. So the scrum master agent would have a daily 15-minute scrum for updating and reviewing who has done what. And once a week, or once in every two weeks, they'll have a meet with the business SME, or the business SME agent, or the user, where then they'll discuss their progress, what are they doing, what is being done, and if the business SME agent or the user itself, if he is in control, wants to change the direction, or wants feels that this is not right, he can create a pivot for that, or he can just align them again that what needs to be done, and then the self-correcting loop goes on. So then they'll have sprint retrospectives, sprint backlog, and everything.